# 设计模式英语总结

1. 各个原则之间的关系：
   1. 目标：开闭原则  
   2. 指导：最小知识原则 
   3. 基础：单一职责原则、可变性封装原则 
   4. 实现：依赖倒转原则、合成复用原则、里氏代换原则、接口隔离原则
2. 可维护性 maintainability
3. 复用 reuse 
4. 重构 refactor
5. 单一职责原则 Single Responsibility Principle (SRP) : never be more than one reason for a class to change
6. 开闭原则 Open-Closed Principle(OCP):open for extension and closed for modification
7. 对可变性封装原则 Principle of Encapsulation of Variation(EVP):找到系统的可变性因素并将其封装起来
8. 里氏替换原则 Liskov Substitution Principle（LSP）
9. 依赖倒转原则 Dependence Inversion Principle(DIP)
10. 将抽象放进代码，将细节放进元数据 Put abstraction in code ,details in metadata
11. 接口隔离原则Interface Segregation Principle（ISP）：split into smaller and more specific interfaces
12. 合成复用原则：Favor composition of objects over inheritance as a reuse mechanism
    1. Composite Reuse Principle(CRP) 合成复用原则
    2. Composition/Aggregate Reuse Principle (CARP) 又称为 组合/聚合复用原则
13. 迪米特法则，又称为最少知识原则 Law of Demeter (LoD) Least Knowledge Principle(LKP)
    1. don't talk to strangers 
    2. talk only to your immediate friends
    3. Each unit should have only limited knowledge about other units: only units "closely" related to the current unit.
14. 策略模式strategy pattern 
15. 简单工厂模式 simple factory pattern 
16. 工厂模式 factory pattern
17. 抽象工厂模式 abstract factory pattern
18. 建造者模式 builder pattern : Separate the construction of a complex object from its representation so that the same construction process can create different representations. 
19. 状态模式 State Pattern：Allow an object to alter its behavior when its internal state changes. The object will appear to change its class. 
20. 命令模式 Command Pattern：Encapsulate a request as an object, thereby letting you parameterize clients with different requests, queue or log requests, and support undoable operations.
21. 观察者模式 Observer Pattern: Define a one-to-many dependency between objects so that when one object changes state, all its dependents are notified and updated automatically. 
22. 中介者模式 Mediator Pattern: Define an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact. Mediator promotes loose coupling by keeping objects from referring to each other explicitly, and it lets you vary their interaction independently. 
23. 模版方法模式 Template Method Pattern: Define the skeleton of an algorithm in an operation, deferring some steps to subclasses. Template Method lets subclasses redefine certain steps of an algorithm without changing the algorithm's structure. 
24. 适配器模式 Adapter Pattern: Convert the interface of a class into another interface clients expect. Adapter lets classes work together that couldn't otherwise because of incompatible interfaces.
25. 组合模式 Composite Pattern: Compose objects into tree structures to represent part-whole hierarchies. Composite lets clients treat individual objects and compositions of objects uniformly.
26. 桥接模式 Bridge Pattern: Decouple an abstraction from its implementation so that the two can vary independently. 
27. 装饰器模式 Decorator Pattern: Attach additional responsibilities to an object dynamically. Decorators provide a flexible alternative to subclassing for extending functionality. 
28. 外观模式Facade Pattern: Provide a unified interface to a set of interfaces in a subsystem. Facade defines a higher-level interface that makes the subsystem easier to use.
29. 享元模式 Flyweight Pattern: Use sharing to support large numbers of fine-grained objects efficiently. 
    1. intrinsic state 内部状态
    2. extrinsic state 外部状态
30. 代理模式 Proxy Pattern: Provide a surrogate or placeholder for another object to control access to it. 